## Kozich Re-Analysis Project

#Development of a Dual-Index Sequencing Strategy and Curation Pipeline for Analyzing Amplicon Sequence Data on the MiSeq Illumina Sequencing Platform

**Abstract** ## paragraph copied from paper
Rapid advances in sequencing technology have changed the experimental landscape of microbial ecology. In the last 10 years, the field has moved from sequencing hundreds of 16S rRNA gene fragments per study using clone libraries to the sequencing of millions of fragments per study using next-generation sequencing technologies from 454 and Illumina. As these technologies advance, it is critical to assess the strengths, weaknesses, and overall suitability of these platforms for the interrogation of microbial communities. Here, we present an improved method for sequencing variable regions within the 16S rRNA gene using Illumina's MiSeq platform, which is currently capable of producing paired 250-nucleotide reads. We evaluated three overlapping regions of the 16S rRNA gene that vary in length (i.e., V34, V4, and V45) by resequencing a mock community and natural samples from human feces, mouse feces, and soil. By titrating the concentration of 16S rRNA gene amplicons applied to the flow cell and using a quality score-based approach to correct discrepancies between reads used to construct contigs, we were able to reduce error rates by as much as two orders of magnitude. Finally, we reprocessed samples from a previous study to demonstrate that large numbers of samples could be multiplexed and sequenced in parallel with shotgun metagenomes. These analyses demonstrate that our approach can provide data that are at least as good as that generated by the 454 platform while providing considerably higher sequencing coverage for a fraction of the cost.



### Overview

	project
	|- README          # the top level description of content (this doc)
	|- CONTRIBUTING    # instructions for how to contribute to your project
	|- LICENSE         # the license for this project
	|
	|- submission/
	| |- study.Rmd    # executable Rmarkdown for this study, if applicable
	| |- study.md     # Markdown (GitHub) version of the *.Rmd file
	| |- study.tex    # TeX version of *.Rmd file
	| |- study.pdf    # PDF version of *.Rmd file
	| |- header.tex   # LaTeX header file to format pdf version of manuscript
	| |- references.bib # BibTeX formatted references
	| |- XXXX.csl     # csl file to format references for journal XXX
	|
	|- data           # raw and primary data, are not changed once created
	| |- references/  # reference files to be used in analysis
	| |- raw/         # raw data, will not be altered
	| |- mothur/      # mothur processed data
	| +- process/     # cleaned data, will not be altered once created;
	|                 # will be committed to repo
	|
	|- code/          # any programmatic code
	|
	|- results        # all output from workflows and analyses
	| |- tables/      # text version of tables to be rendered with kable in R
	| |- figures/     # graphs, likely designated for manuscript figures
	| +- pictures/    # diagrams, images, and other non-graph graphics
	|
	|- exploratory/   # exploratory data analysis for study
	| |- notebook/    # preliminary analyses
	| +- scratch/     # temporary files that can be safely deleted or lost
	|
	+- Makefile       # executable Makefile for this study, if applicable


### How to regenerate this repository

#### Dependencies and locations
* Gnu Make should be located in the user's PATH
* mothur (v1.XX.0) should be located in the user's PATH
* R (v. 3.X.X) should be located in the user's PATH
* R packages:
  * `knitr`
  * `rmarkdown`
* etc


#### Running analysis

```
git clone https://github.com/SchlossLab/LastName_BriefDescription_Journal_Year.git
make write.paper
```
